## About
Emerald is a minimal theme created for Jekyll. The main purpose of Emerald is to provide a clear theme for those who want a blog ready to use, focused on the content and mobile-first.

## Adding Post
To create a new blog post, create a markdown folder in the "_posts" folder. Use the following format:
Year-Month-Day-Title.md
EX) 2015-02-10-Why Simplicity is doo doo.md

### Options
Starting from the 1.1.0 version, you can customize Emerald thanks to a few options. Now it is possible to set a custom header tag by setting the related option in the ``_config.yml`` file to "true". Then insert your custom code into the ``header-custom.html`` file.
In the same way, you can customize the footer of the navigation menu, by setting to "true" the related option and put your code into the ``nav-footer-custom.html`` file.
Moreover it is now possible to select a reverse option that allows to move the navigation menu to the left side, by setting it to "true".

### Colors
The basic colors are set into the ``base.scss`` file:
- $main-color: used for the menu, title, link and footer
- $background-color: used for background and links in the navigation menu
- $text-color: used for text and title in posts and pages 

To customize the colors, just set the values in HEX, RGB (or RGBa) or any other format accepted by CSS.

### Navigation menu
Starting from the 1.1.0 version, the links inside the navigation menu are autogenerated from pages having the layout set to ``page``.
You can set custom links, by putting in the ``<a>`` tag into the ``link.html`` file.

### Branch
Emerald has two branch: 
- ``master``: is for developing pourpose.
- ``gh-pages``: is only for demo site.  

### Baseurl
Emerald was thought to be used mainly with Github, in particular into [project site](https://pages.github.com/). For this reason several tags have been included ``{{ site.baseurl }}`` to refer to the "/emerald/" directory.
You can change the "baseurl" value into the ``config.yml`` file, to match your directory (for example "/blog/") or the root of your project. In that case you must set the "baseurl" value to "/".

### Typography
To maintain the vertical rhythm, it has been applied a **Typographic scale** as a modular scale, with a baseline set to 24px. To maintain this rhythm you need to insert elements like image, video or other contents with a 24px (or multiple) height as refer.

Last but not least: the [Jekyll documentation](http://jekyllrb.com) is the best starting point! 


- Template: [www.jacoporabolini.com](http://www.jacoporabolini.com)

